In the last video i introduced you to the basic
functionality of GIT. Now we will take a look
at the GitHub platform and how we will use it
throughout the semester. So after you have created
an account on GitHub you can start creating your
own projects, the repositories. To do so, from
your profile page simply click on the repositories
tab and then there is a button to create a new
repository. The first thing we need to provide is
a name for our repository. We will just call it a
"test-repo" for now. You will get an immediate
response, if this is a valid and available
name for your repository. You can provide a
description if you want: "this is a test repo".
Then you need to define if your
repository should be public or private.
Public repositories: everybody can see your code,
can fork your repository and so on. A private
repository is only visible to yourself and you
can invite collaborators to see your repository.
Very important, if you fork a repository, the
fork of your repository has the same visibility
as the original repository. So in this case
probably public. So later when you're cloning
our "learning-parametric-design"
repository, which is public.
Your version is also public. If
you don't want your code to be
public forever, just completely delete
the repository at the end of the semester.
Then we can decide if we want a readme file. A
readme file is nice, because when somebody visits
your repository, there's a small information shown
below the structure of your repository and this
description is generated based on the content of
the readme file. A .gitignore file is also good to
have. A .gitignore file helps you to hide certain
things that you only want on your local machine.
So imagine you have some files with passwords
or settings or something that you don't want to
push into the cloud version, then you can add
those files specifically to a .gitignore file
and thereby they won't be pushed to the online
version, but only kept on your local machine.
There are different templates, depending
on what coding language you're going to use
inside your repository. Then you can choose
a license. Especially for public projects,
it's very important to have a good license. So
other people know how they can reuse your code.
All of my projects are always open source, so
i usually choose either the GPL-3 license or
the MIT license. Because they're very good for
other people to reuse your code for their own
projects. But of course you
could also choose a license
that makes the code copyrighted and so nobody
can reuse it without getting permission from you.
And then we simply need to create the repository.
And now we have our first repository. So here you
see your username and then the repository name.
We will now switch to our desktop application
to clone this repository that we created and
start editing it on our machine. After you've
authenticated yourself in the desktop app, you
can start cloning repositories. To do so, click
on the upper left, then click on add and then
"clone repository". I will now type "test-repo"
here. Sometimes you might not immediately see the
repo you have just created online, in this list.
If you cannot see it, simply click on the
little update arrows in the upper right.
This will load the latest information from your
account and you can then select the repository.
After selecting this, you can change the path
where this is generated on your computer. This
can be anywhere. Per default, there is a GitHub
folder being created and inside the GitHub folder
all your repositories are stored. But you can
change it to any location on your machine.
Now we simply need to click the clone button
and depending on the size of your repository
this can take a few seconds. And then we now
have this repository on our local machine
and we can now work on it offline. We
don't need any connection to the cloud,
just to update changes or pull changes from
the cloud, we need to be online of course.
There is a nice little trick to open a
repository directly in visual studio code.
Simply do a right click on your repository and
then there is an open visual studio code button.
Some students have reported that this button
does not always show up. So sometimes GitHub
is not able to recognize that there is visual
studios code installed on your machine. If
this is not available to you, you have to open it
manually with visual studio code. If i click this,
a new window opens and i now have access
to the local version of the repository, we
just cloned. We can now see that there are already
three files in our repository the .gitignore,
this is all the data that is being ignored and
not pushed to the cloud. Then we have the license
we have selected while creating the repository
and the readme file. And we can also see the
description that we entered during creation has
been added to the readme file. To demonstrate
how the push and commit functionality
works, we will just modify our readme
file and add a single line of text here: "hello
world". Save this and then we add a new file.
"test.txt"
Add a little bit of text here
and what is nice about visual studio
code is that we can immediately see
the changes in our repository. So the green
color here means that this is a new file and
the orange color is a modification of this file.
So if we switch back to our desktop application,
we can also see these changes
here. We see that there's two
changes in two files and if we
click on the files, we can even see
what has changed. In this case, this indicates
that there is a new line that has been added here
and some new text. To combine this in one commit
and then push it, we need to provide a message
text that identifies this commit, that names this
commit. We will just name this "readme update".
We could provide a more elaborate description
here and then we create our commit.
Now we've created a new version of our repository,
that we could later use to switch back to,
but this new version is not yet
pushed to the cloud. To do this we
need to use this button up here and
now it's being pushed to the cloud.
This might take a while, depending on how many
changes you've made. And if we switch back to the
online version, update it, we can now see that the
update we did to the readme file is now visible
here. We can also see here in this column, the
commit message for the last change of each file.
We see when the commit was sent to the
cloud and get a nice overview. Here
we can also edit text files directly
in GitHub on the web. So i could click
on a little edit icon here and now for example
simply add a letter, a character here and then
write a commit message "another readme
update" and commit the whole thing.
It becomes immediately visible on the web
version, but let's take a look back at our desktop
application. Here there is no indicator yet, so we
need to update our repository information up here.
And now it's visible that there has been one
change online. And now we can pull this change
into our local repository. And if i switch back to
the editor and go into the readme file, we can now
see that this has also been updated now. And we
have access to the latest version. So you can also
do the same commands directly in visual studio
code so let's add another line of text here.
Save the whole thing. We can immediately see
that there's a modification here and we can
also see in the left bar here that there has
been a little one. Edit here and this status
indicator says that there's one change in our
GIT infrastructure. And if we click on this, our
source control opens. And this is similar to what
we saw in the desktop app. We see all the changes
in this list here and we can now combine them
in a commit. We need to provide a message here
and then we can press on
STRG/CTRL or command enter.
And now we need to push it. And we have a little
indicator up here, that it's working on the push.
And as soon as it's done, we can see that now
everything is updated. We can even switch back
to our desktop app and look into the history and
see that there has been another change here. And
it's showing in our commit history. So the
commit history is really nice to go through
the different versions that you have committed to
the cloud. And of course it's also visible in our
web application. If i update this here we can see
that the latest changes are also visible now here
so this is how you create your own repo how you
pull and push information back and forth to your
online repository. The last step, that i already
mentioned in the last video, is that we can also
fork an existing project of someone else. For
this seminar i've created a repository in our
university account the url you see up here. The
repository is called "learning-parametric-design".
And to create a copy of this
repository in your own account
we use the "fork" button up here. If you click
on fork, you now can fork this repository
and because i have a lot of different
accounts that i have access to on GitHub,
i have a list of accounts here, i will choose my
personal account and fork this repository there.
Again depending on the size of the project
this can take a while until it's forked.
But as soon as it's done, you see the same
structure as it was in a university account
in your personal account. The nice thing here is,
now that you can edit this as much as you like,
you can destroy this as much as you like, and
this has no impact on the original version.
If you want it, you could push your changes
back to the original account, but in our case
you will just be able to work on this completely
standalone and no need to push anything back. So
you don't need to worry about changing anything
or destroying anything or breaking anything.
It's all yours now. And this repository we can
now clone the same way we did with our original
repository. So we simply say clone repository
and then we have "learning-parametric-design",
choose it from the list and in this case i
already have a folder called this, so i need to
change the folder name. I clone it,
takes a few seconds and if you clone
a fork for the first time, there's a small
message popping up after the cloning is complete.
And this message asks you, how
you're planning to use this fork,
so in big open source projects, you might fork a
project, then do some changes and then commit the
changes back to the original project. In our case
you will only use it for your own purposes. In
this case just select the second option, click on
continue and now you're ready to use your project.
And you will just be able to use the same commands
as we used for the new repository that we created.